[Dream] We begin…
[enchanting music playing]
…in the waking world,
which humanity insists
on calling the real world…
as if your dreams have no effect
upon the choices you make.
You mortals go about your work,
your loves, your wars,
as if your waking lives
are all that matter.
But there is another life which awaits you
when you close your eyes…
and enter my realm.
For I am the King of Dreams…
[screeches]
…and Nightmares.
When the waking world
leaves you wanting and weary,
sleep brings you here
to find freedom and adventure.
To face your fears and fantasies
in Dreams and Nightmares that I create…
and which I must control,
lest they consume and destroy you.
That is my purpose and my function.
Or it was,
until I left my kingdom
to pursue a rogue Nightmare.
My Lord, you are coming back, aren't you?
[Dream] Why would I not return, Lucienne?
I don't know, a presentiment.
As powerful as you are here in your realm,
Dreams rarely survive in the waking world.
Nightmares, on the other hand,
seem to thrive there.
Wake up, sir, we're here. Fawney Rig.
Already?
I must have dozed off.
Thank you.
[suspenseful music playing]
[engine starts]
[doorbell rings]
Oh.
Good afternoon, lad.
My name is Dr. John Hathaway.
Of the Royal Museum?
Are you here to see the Magus?
Well, I've come
to see Mr. Roderick Burgess.
Father likes to be called Magus.
It means sorcerer.
Hmm.
[door creaks]
[door closes]
[people chanting] Here in the darkness.
Here in the darkness.
The Magus will receive his guest
in the study, Alex.
Yes, Mr. Sykes.
Have you come to join Father's Order?
The Order of Ancient Mysteries.
Dr. Hathaway, what an unexpected pleasure.
Alex, tea for our guest.
Please, sit down.
You must be exhausted from your journey.
Thank you.
I take it you've reconsidered, then?
After our meeting at the museum…
I know what I said.
I received a telegram this morning.
My son, Edmund,
his destroyer was
sunk last week, off Jutland.
Oh, my condolences, Doctor.
We are bonded
then, in our grief, you and I.
As you know, I lost my son Randall
recently at Gallipoli.
Forgive me, I…
I understood that
Randall was your only son.
[Roderick] Randall was my greatest joy.
All this was meant to be his. [chuckles]
So, have you brought it,
the Magdalene Grimoire?
If I give you the book…
can you really…
Capture the Angel of Death?
Oh, yes.
With the spells recorded in this book,
we can compel Death
to return our sons to us.
Your Edmund
and my Randall will live again.
[eerie music playing]
It's all right, Dr. Hathaway. Here.
Tonight, we will achieve
what no one before us has even attempted.
We will summon and imprison Death.
Here in the darkness.
[disciples] Here in the darkness.
[engine idling]
[man groans]
[Dream] Corinthian.
My creations stay in The Dreaming.
They do not walk amongst the living,
killing mortals for pleasure.
Isn't this why you created me?
Why should we confine ourselves
to their sleeping minds?
Here, in the waking world,
we're unstoppable.
There is nothing preventing us from taking
whoever, whatever we want.
[Dream] There is though.
My Lord…
Please, no.
No, no, no, I beg you.
[gasps]
Please…
[Dream gasps]
[disciples chanting] Here in the darkness.
[Dream groaning]
[breathing heavily]
I give you a coin made from a stone.
[disciples] Here in the darkness.
I give you a knife from under the hills,
and I give you the blood
from out of my vein.
[disciples] Here in the darkness.
I give you a song I stole from the dirt,
and I give you a feather
pulled from an angel's wing,
for you to lift up into the heavens.
[disciples] Here in the darkness.
Here in the darkness.
[louder] Here in the darkness.
I summon you with poison.
[disciples] Here in the darkness.
Here in the darkness.
I summon you with pain.
[disciples] Here in the darkness.
Here in the darkness.
I open the way, I open the gates.
[disciples] Here in the darkness.
Here in the darkness.
I summon you
in the names of the old lords.
Namtar, Allatu, Morax… Maborym calls you.
Horvendile calls you.
We summon you together. Come!
[disciples gasp]
[disciples murmuring]
[tense music playing]
Alex.
Alex!
Get that pouch for me.
But be careful.
Don't break the binding circle.
Hmm. Sand.
Now the jewel. There.
Good.
Well, let's see
what other treasures you have for us.
-[bird cawing]
-The bird!
[grunting]
-Father!
-[Roderick] No! No! Stop.
Move.
[grunts]
Hmm.
We'll let our guest recover
before we tell him our demands.
Guards, watch him.
[Dream] I was powerless,
trapped by a spell cast by an amateur
with no concern for the damage
he had done to my realm
and to his own.
For the following morning,
there were some sleepers…
[man] Unity.
[Dream] …who could not wake up.
Unity.
Rise and shine, dormouse.
Can't have you late to school, can we?
Luvvie? Wake up. Unity?
-What's wrong?
-Call the doctor.
Hello, operator.
[people clamoring]
[Dream] The sleepy sickness,
as it was called,
affected nearly one million men,
women and children
in every city, town
and village in the world.
[doorbell buzzing]
Sykes! Alex!
[door opens]
Oi!
[Corinthian] Good morning, Magus.
Do I know you?
No, but I know all about you, Roderick,
and the being
you've trapped in your cellar.
Blackmail then, is it? A shakedown?
Not at all. I'm here to help you.
You're gonna need
all the help you can get.
There are benefits
to keeping one of The Endless close.
The Endless?
Did you think Death
was the only one in charge?
The Reaper has family, you know.
Desire, Destiny, Despair.
Which one have I got then?
Dream.
What's the good
of a god who governs dreams?
Not a god.
More than a god.
And are men not governed by their dreams?
You've taken his vestments?
The ruby, the pouch and the helm?
-They can lend you an aspect of his power.
-[sniffs]
Extend your lifespan,
allow you to manipulate others.
But you must ensure that he never escapes.
The binding circle is intact.
The circle will not be enough.
You must construct
a sphere of glass inside the circle
to contain Dream's physical manifestation.
No one must be allowed
to fall asleep in his presence, no one,
or he will escape into your dreams.
And you don't want that.
There are Forced March tablets.
Stimulants used to keep
trench soldiers awake.
See that your guards
use them at all times.
Um… Why are you helping me?
What… what is he to you?
Well, you could say that
he made me what I am today.
And if he ever gets free,
he could take it all back.
We're being observed.
What? There's nobody here.
[bird cawing]
[Corinthian] Well,
you'll have to deal with that one.
Her name is Jessamy.
She belongs to him.
Best of luck… to the both of us.
Will I see you again?
You should hope not.
[car engine starts]
[car door opens, closes]
[door opens]
You can go.
[cell door closes]
[sighs]
Are you awake?
Are you listening?
I know who you are…
Dream of The Endless.
I captured you
according to the laws of magic.
But it wasn't you I wanted.
I wanted Death to return my son Randall,
who died in the Gallipoli Campaign.
If you give him back to me,
alive and well,
I'll release you.
Is that in your power, Lord of Dreams?
No, I suppose not.
So, then, what can you give me?
If I let you go,
if I promise to give you back your things.
What, power? Wealth? Immortality? Hmm?
Is there nothing you can offer me?
Well, have it your way then.
And until you're ready to speak,
I'll enjoy the gifts
you've already given me.
[Dream] Day after day,
he pleaded for gifts
that are not mankind's
to receive nor mine to give.
So I remained silent.
And ten years later…
-Enjoy yourself.
-Of course.
…though my presence there
remained a secret,
my ruby, sand
and helm brought youth and prosperity
to Roderick Burgess and his followers.
[Sykes] Enjoy yourselves.
But for the rest of the world,
the suffering continued.
[Sykes] Alex.
[jaunty music playing]
[sighs]
You're supposed to be working,
not reading.
Don't let your father catch you.
[indistinct chatter]
Good evening.
Excuse me, I'm afraid that there's
no more room inside this evening.
-But if you'd all come back tomorrow--
-Been out here for hours. We're not goin'.
But, I'm afraid that the Magus insists.
Oh, the Magus insists, does he?
And who are you to speak for the Magus?
Who the fuck are you?
[woman] He's the Magus' son.
[chuckling] You fucking twat.
And he can do magic too.
Can't you?
Do you want him to put a curse on you?
Hex you and all your unborn children?
No? Then you should leave right now.
-Can we still come back tomorrow?
-Can they?
Yeah. If they bring cash.
Well, you heard him. Cash only.
Now, piss off.
[people murmuring]
Thanks for that.
You didn't need my help.
I'll bet you can do magic, can't you?
Can't do much of anything, really.
That's not true.
You're more powerful than you know.
You can get me in to see the Magus.
[Alex chuckles softly]
[door opens]
[man 1] I'm not staying with that thing
one second longer than I have to.
[man 2] We can't just leave him alone.
[man 1] Why not?
He's in his cage, isn't he?
[man 2 sighs] Sometimes
I wonder about this job.
[man 1] Really, "sometimes"?
-I do not have the--
-[Alex] Morning.
-You seen Noel and Maurice?
-No.
They're nearly half hour late.
Uh, I could… watch him,
until they get here, if you wanted to go.
-See you tomorrow.
-Cheers, Alex.
[door opens and closes]
[eerie music playing]
Hello.
It's Alex. The Magus' son.
See, I don't know
whether you can speak or…
or even understand me, but
I just wanted to ask…
Are you all right in there?
[scoffs]
No, of course you're not.
I'm… I'm sorry about all of this.
He's not a bad man,
my father, he… he just…
See, if you could bring Randall back,
or… or just give him something, anything.
Or even just speak to him.
Then I am sure he would let you out.
See, I… I would let you out
if I could.
[Roderick] You would, would you?
[both grunt]
-What were you doing down there, huh?
-Nothing.
You were plotting his escape, weren't you?
Conspiring against me?
-Hmm?
-No, Father.
-What did he say to you?
-He didn't say anything.
Know what would happen if you let him out?
I won't, Magus. I promise.
He'd slaughter you.
He'd slaughter all of us.
Is that what you want?
Is it? Do you wanna die, Alex? Do you?
'Cause if you do, it's relatively simple.
[tapping]
Fuck.
[Roderick groans softly]
[Ethel] Roddy?
What is it? What's wrong?
It's Jessamy.
Who's Jessamy?
I've been trying to shoot
this wretched bird for ten years now.
It can't be the same bird, can it?
-Did he tell you to say that? Did he? Hmm?
-No, Father. He didn't say anything.
Prove it to me.
Shoot the fucking bird.
Ethel.
[tense music playing]
[dramatic music playing]
Fucking hell.
-Shall we call the fire brigade?
-We are the fire brigade. Come on.
[dramatic music continues playing]
[gunshot]
Idiot. You could have shattered the glass.
Clear that mess up.
[Dream] The savagery
of my captors bespoke a world
whose dreams in my absence
turned darker still.
A world which would soon be at war again.
A world still ravaged by the disease
which doctors named…
encephalitis lethargica.
I just want to sleep, please.
[Dream] Some begged for sleep
that would not come.
Others lived as perpetual sleepwalkers.
Most slept without waking.
[Alex grunts]
[Paul] Sorry, sir.
What's that you're reading?
Uh…
I'm afraid I'm doing much more sleeping
than I am reading at the moment.
Have you read Vile Bodies?
Now that'll keep you awake.
[glass shattering]
[Ethel crying]
[door closes]
You all right?
Well, I'm going to have a baby. [chuckles]
[chuckles softly]
That's wonderful news.
[sniffles]
He wants me to get rid of it.
In fact, he's…
calling the doctor right now.
[sniffles]
[clears throat]
I'll be fine.
Not your worry.
[Roderick] What is it? What's wrong?
She's taken it all.
The helmet, the pouch,
the ruby, the grimoire,
and 200,000 in cash.
She's taken far more than that.
Find her. Bring her back here now.
Where are you going?
To see how badly Dream of The Endless
wants out of his cage.
The woman who lives with me has gone
and robbed me of my fortune.
She's also robbed you.
She's taken your helm,
your sand and your ruby.
Now, I can unlock this,
you can go after her…
if you give me what I've been asking for.
Wealth, youth, immortality.
Oh, you're a god.
These things are nothing to you.
Don't you want your weapons
and your freedom?
Speak to me! Speak to me! Speak to me!
-Come on! Speak to me!
-It's all right, Father.
Get away from me.
If you were any kind of son to me…
[Alex grunts]
If Randall were alive today--
If Randall were alive,
he would hate you as much as I do.
[groans]
[Maurice] Sir?
You're never getting out of there.
Never.
Sir, can you hear me?
Sir?
He's not moving. Is he…
[Noel] He's dead.
[suspenseful music playing]
[Maurice] Don't do it, sir.
He'll kill us.
What would your father say?
I need to think.
Sir?
Are you all right?
My father, he, uh…
He's dead.
I'm so sorry, sir.
I'm so sorry, Alex.
[Dream] Out of loss, new love was born,
as was new life.
For nine months later,
Ethel Cripps gave birth to a son.
My mum used to say that if I was good,
when I went to sleep, a man would come,
sprinkle sand in my eyes.
Make all of my dreams come true.
But the Sandman's not coming.
From now on, Johnny,
you and I are going to have to
make our own dreams come true.
And nothing and no one
is going to stand in our way.
[thunder rumbling]
[door opens]
[Alex] How is he today, Rogers?
Buggered if I know, sir.
Moved his hand this morning. Right hand.
Oh, my God.
Alex?
Hello.
This is my friend, Paul.
Paul, this is our unwilling guest.
Look, we've been talking, Paul and I,
and if I let you out,
will you promise not to harm us?
If you could just speak to us.
[Alex] You see, I told you.
I'm telling you, you have to keep trying.
Show him that he can trust you.
Show him that you mean it.
I do mean it.
Just promise that
you won't harm me or Paul,
and I will let you out.
[Dream] Should I have
believed him this time?
Should I have forgiven him
for murdering my raven?
Perhaps.
But in the end…
I could not.
[elderly Alex] I could have
asked you for wealth
or power, like my father did.
But all I ever wanted
was to be free of you.
Surely you want that too.
Alex, darling, please.
Take me upstairs, Paul.
I won't be coming down here again.
[cell door closes]
Old Dracula here's not givin' an inch.
-Why do you call it Dracula?
-'Cause I think it's one of them Draculas.
What do you think it is?
I try not to.
You know what I think about?
Majorca.
Four days… and I'll be on a beach.
-Stinking of suntan lotion.
-[Ernie] Lucky bugger.
I was on Corfu on holiday once.
I met this right fit type
at the hotel in the morning…
[indistinct chatter]
[dramatic music playing]
[Ernie] Fred!
Fred, stop it! You'll… Fred!
Don't move! Stay where you are!
[Ernie] What… what's he got in his hands?
Oi! Open your hands, now!
Paul?
-Well, hello.
-[meows]
Where did you come from?
[Dream] Hello.
It's… it's you.
You're… you're free.
[Dream] I am.
And you have any idea what it was like?
Confined in a cage for over a century?
Do you understand the damage
you've done to your world?
I'm sorry. I… I didn't know. Please.
Your punishment, then, shall be a gift.
I give you this,
the gift… of eternal… sleep.
-Alex. Alex, wake up, please.
-[shuddering]
[Dream] More than a century
of tortured sleep,
of Dreams and Nightmares running riot
was coming to an end.
[Corinthian] He's free.
He's out of his cage.
[clears throat]
So, I'm afraid I'm gonna have to run.
And I'm not gonna stop
until I've reshaped this world
to look just like me.
[Lucienne] Sir. Sir!
Oh, my goodness.
Sir.
It's me.
It's Lucienne.
[Dream gasps]
[weakly] Lucienne.
You're home, my Lord.
I am.
[enthralling music playing]
[rumbling]
Forgive me, sir, but… the realm,
the palace…
they are not as you left them.
What happened here?
Who did this?
[Lucienne] My Lord, you are The Dreaming,
The Dreaming is you.
With you gone as long as you were,
the realm began to… decay
and crumble.
And the residents?
The palace staff?
I'm afraid most have
gone.
-Gone?
-Some went looking for you.
And the others?
They thought, perhaps,
you'd grown weary of your duties
-and--
-What?
Abandoned them?
Had they so little faith in me?
Do my own subjects not know me?
If I may, sir.
It wouldn't be the first time
one of The Endless had just--
Enough.
I will not have Dreams and Nightmares
preying on the waking world.
I will bring them all back.
I made this realm once, Lucienne.
I will make it again.
I knew you would return.
The Dreaming must be restored.
You want me to kill the King of Dreams?
[Corinthian] You just have to trust me.
[woman 1] Whatever's happening,
however it's happening,
your dreams are coming true.
[woman 2] I'm worried about my brother.
I need your help. If dreams disappear,
then so will humanity.
You have to do something.
[Matthew the raven] Fuck it!
Let's go to Hell.
What power have Dreams in Hell?
Nightmares do not belong
in the waking world, Corinthian.
Oh, turns out I fit right in.
Can I get you anything you desire?
Your kingdom is my birthright.
Can you imagine the damage he could do?
[Dream screaming]
You don't think Dreams can die.
Let's find out.
-Boss!
-Still with us, Dream?
[Matthew the raven]
Dreams don't fucking die.
[theme music playing]